I’d say Apple’s most well-known advertisement is [1984](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VtvjbmoDx-I&ab_channel=MacHistory) – symbolising the newly conceived macintosh machine going against conformity, in allusion to Geoge Orwell’s book “1984”. And yet today their advertising now showcases the opposite of that very message. Recently, their [ad regarding the new iPad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ntjkwIXWtrc&ab_channel=Apple) with its powerful M4 chip has received great pushback online, for good reason. This ad depicts a industrial crushing machine being utilised on what many would consider “modes of creation”: musical instruments, television, paints – all crushed into nothing but a small rectangular flat screen. To many people, this ad comes off as depicting technology stifling and outright killing creativity.

Seeing Tim Cook [tweet this advertisement excitedly](https://twitter.com/tim_cook/status/1787864325258162239), as expected, made many twitter users upset, and rightfully so. Add to the fact that this advertisement was insensitive and offensive is the fact that Apple is simply not moving in the right direction. The Apple vision pro – a marvellous piece of technology by all accounts – was priced so high and out of reach of most consumers worldwide that the quantity demanded for this product was extremely low. They even had to cancel additional orders from the manufacturer. It is unbelievable how Apple expects the average middle class household, heck, even tech enthusiasts who are willing to spend large amounts on the latest tech trend, to fork out 3.5 thousand dollars for a fad!

Then, Apple executives have the nerve to comment that no one is using the Vision Pro and [developers are not creating apps](https://appleinsider.com/articles/24/04/08/apples-privacy-rules-are-stifling-apple-vision-pro-apps-for-now) for its walled in OS and app store. What’s ironic is that Apple has one of the most stringent app development guidelines, and compounded with the fact that they take 30% of the revenue that app developers earn severely limits the audience of apple developer fanboys who are willing to develop on their authoritarian platform. This does not only apply to the Vision Pro, but to the entire ecosystem as a whole. In a very high profile case in 2020, Epic Games sued Apple for breaking anti-competition laws by implementing a way to bypass the 30% tax imposed on Fortnite. As expected, Apple, with its league of billion dollar lawyers, beat [Epic Games to a pulp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epic_Games_v._Apple). These anticompetitive practices cannot continue for the sake of the Apple ecosystem and Apple itself.

Why is Apple still celebrating how they reduced the thickness of their Ipad by the most miniscule amount? Do they not see the dumpster fire that has nearly caught up to them? Apple needs to change, and fast.
